So that's the heavy part
of all the query and
now I'm gonna talk a bit more about
what we haven't seen and that's joining.
So in SQL tables, or SQL tables,
we see that we always join by having
a foreign key, so in this case, we have
tbl users with the UID of David 123.
And then that joins out to the UID
in the expense of David 123,
and we can see that David 123,
there's just two expenses in that table.
And so writing a query,
I can get that user back, so
I can select all the properties I want.
And I can actually enter join and
I can get back a whole column of the ID,
the cost, the date, the user's UID and
their first and last name.
And it comes back as one big result set.
So anytime I need to get data, since it's
all denormalized I have to query and
combine it all together.
With no SQL, depending on your use case,
this is a lot different.
In the same way where you saw
that I queried to get that user,
it's very common to say, all right,
when I have a user's expense.
Or when I go to expenses,
instead of just putting the UID for user,
I'm gonna put the whole user object in
there or things that I feel that I need.
I've first written there twice,
should be first and last.
When you look at that, a lot of people
who are used to very highly normalized
structures are like, whoa,
that's duplicated data.
What happens when David needs to move
from Washington DC to New York City,
do I have to update all that?
And the answer is, well it depends.
And a lot of systems,
how often is someone moving cities?
So how often is someone
updating their profile?
So in cases like that where you
know that data rarely changes,
denormalizing it tends to
be a really great option.
Because then I don't have
to worry about querying,
I'm still prioritizing
my reads over my writes.
And if they do update something, I can
trigger a system known as fan out where
I say, okay, let me find all their
expenses and let me update all that.
You can do that when they update their
profiles, or you could do that even
on like a crown job style basis
depending on what your system has.
And this is something that's very common
in no SQL systems, is just copying data,
but being aware of where it is by,
in this case, we have the UID.
So at any point in time, if I need to
fan out that update, I can do that.
And then what this allows me to do, is I
can still write a query like that where I
can say user.uid = David 123 but
I get back the whole record.
And so instead of doing a join,
it's all readily available for me.
Also, another thing about
denormalization is that a lot of people,
when they think they come on to a no
SQL database, they get kind of afraid.
They're like,
I'm gonna have to copy data everywhere,
I'm gonna update data everywhere.
That's kind of frustrating.
I'm used to normalized systems.
I don't like that.
Well denormalization,
tends to be most useful when a,
data that's embedded is rarely updated,
because then it's pretty easy to manage.
And also when you're dealing
with one to many relationships.
Because you can do somewhat of
a join with Firestore by saying,
okay if I have one user,
I can get many of their expenses.
So, in this case, I'm querying for
the active users expenses, and
I'm getting the current user with
something like Firebase off.
And so, I can get that user information
from the database, and then because I have
their user information,
I can create a realtime listener.
And then now I can merge
those two things together.
So those are two separate calls,
but I have authentication
information from one and
I can combine their expenses in as well.
So this is another way,
this works really well.
If you have a one to many situation, this
is what I tend to do most of the time.
When it's say, we just get something.
I have the active user,
I have a way to get their data.
If it's one user, many objects,
that's pretty easy to put together.
Denormalization tends to be more important
when you have a many to many situation.
If a expense could have many owners and
then I would start looking
more into embedding the dock.
Because I would have to do a multiway
read to get all of that user's
information back because they're
located in separate spots.
But if I know that I'll have two users per
expense I can just embed them in there and
there's no join.
So many to many relationships,
I find that that tends to be a good place
to denormalize and copy your data over.
One to many you can get away
a lot with just saying, hey,
I'm gonna do something that's like a join.
So it's important to take away here
is that a lot of people think like
when I join.
Or when I start with a no SQL database,
I have to let go of all these normalized
standards that I have or
all these things I'm used to.
And to a degree, yes,
you have a whole new world of flexibility
where you don't need all the same columns.
You don't need to follow a very
strict data structure anymore.
So use that to your advantage.
However, it doesn't mean
that all of a sudden,
data just has to be copied everywhere,
and everything needs to do that.
It's more of a spectrum, where you say,
okay, I'm going keep these separate and
I'll do a query for these, but
these ones I'm gonna embed on.
So it's more of a spectrum rather than
just saying, now that I'm using no SQL,
I'm gonna go all the way with
denormalizing everything.
And one of the things that's gonna help
out a lot with denormalization and
just with querying in
general is hierarchy.
So, in Firestore, as we've seen,
we have collections and
documents, but documents can
have sub-collections themselves.
And so, this right here creates a very
logical path for us to read data, and
it makes it easier to read data without
writing any queries whatsoever.
So, let's say within the users collection,
I decided,
okay I don't want to store expenses
out as its own collection.
I'm going to embed expenses
within each user's document.
So I would have this new path
where I'd say slash users,
slash the user ID, but
then slash expenses.
And so now if I want to get us a user's
expenses, I can do that without writing
a single query because of
the way I structured my data.
And it's this kind of hierarchy is
really the hallmark of no SQL databases.
I'm able to find paths that kind of
do my most common queries for me.
And since Firestore does
have limited queries,
this is also one less field that I
have to worry about restricting on.
So I don't have to say where
the UID is equal to this.
I can just say hey, UID is already
taken care of in the path for me,
I now have two more fields that I
get to do composite queries by.
And this is really what
the query looks like.
it's just get me David 123's expenses,
and queries in Firestore are shallow.
So just because I'm getting back a user
document doesn't mean I'm getting back all
of their queries.
If I get back a user document,
I just get that document.
If I want to get their queries,
I will need to further nest
down like I'm doing here.
Yes, so yeah, you only get the document,
you do not get it sub collection.
So that allows you to follow the structure
without worrying about just vacuuming up
all the data below.
The real time database and
the other database we have
does not work the same way.
Queries are deep.
So in the way that if you query one thing,
you do get all of the data underneath it.
So it has a bit of a different data
structuring pattern where you wanna keep
things flat as possible at the top.
But now if we break everything out though,
into if we embed use expenses
as a sub collection of users.
What if we still have a requirement in our
document or within our app to say, well,
I still need to see all
the expenses across all users.
Would I have to query across all,
get all my user IDs and
then create a bunch of separate
queries and put them all together?
Well, Firestore knows that
this is a big issue, so
if we're using this common
expenses sub-collection.
Where we have David 123 has expenses and
Darla 999 has expenses,
and Juan 217 has expenses.
Well, couldn't I just query across
all sub-collections called expenses?
And that's exactly what you can
do with a collection group query?
So right here you can see we're using
this function called collection group and
it's just has one field or
one path on it called expenses.
And it will look across the database for
any sub-collection named expenses, and
it will perform a query on it.
So by the fact that I'm
structuring my data this way,
I'm getting a lot of
the best of both worlds.
I can get all of my user data back if
I want, or I can get all collections
just for one user with a simple read
by following the hierarchy path.
Or I can get all expenses back for
all users with
collection group queries,
so allows me to do either.
And collection group queries, also,
they work just like other queries.
You can continue to restrict,
and do other things.
So in this case, I can say hey,
get me the category,
give me any expenses across all users
where category contains food and
the cost is between $200 and $210.
So that allows me to do
both of those things.
So, I'm gonna show off how
collection group queries work.